###Data Dictionary - Smartphone Data Set 2012
---
####Construction of Variable Names
---
Variable names are constructed using one to four letter abbreviations or full words.

* tm - Identifies time domain measures that are captured at a constant rate of 50hz
* ftt - Identifies frequency domain signals which have at a Fast Fourier Transform applied to them.
* body - The source of the acceleration is due to human movement
* gravity - The source of the acceleration is due to gravity.
* acc - The accelerometer is the source of the measurement.
* gyro - The gyroscope is the source of the meausrement.
* mean - Represents the average of all measures for variable
* std - Represents the standard deviation of all measure for the variable
* jerk - This measure represents acceleration over time
* mag - Represents magnitude, typically used where direction is not given or known.
* x - Identifies a signal that represents movement along the x-axis
* y - Identifies a signal that represents movement along the y-axis
* z - Identifies a signal that represents movement along the z-axis

---
####Data Dictionary
---
The data in this data set represents the average of each variable grouped by subject and activity.

**subject** - *Integer*
--Identifies a unique test subject and associates all other variables with that test subject *primary key

**activity** - *Character Array*
--Categorizes that activity being performed for the variable values collected.  Uses the following values:
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;1. walking
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;2. walking upstairs
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;3. walking downstairs
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;4. sitting
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;5. standing
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;6. laying

**tmbodyaccmeanx** - *Float*
--Identifies the mean for a time domain signal generated by the accelerometer representing body acceleration on the x-axis.         
   
**tmbodyaccmeany** - *Float*
--Identifies the mean for a time domain signal generated by the accelerometer representing body acceleration on the y-axis.   
   
**tmbodyaccmeanz** - *Float*
--Identifies the mean for a time domain signal generated by the accelerometer representing body acceleration on the z-axis. 

**tmbodyaccstdx** - *Float*
--Identifies the standard deviation for a time domain signal generated by the accelerometer representing body acceleration on the x-axis. 
             
**tmbodyaccstdy** - *Float*
--Identifies the standard deviation for a time domain signal generated by the accelerometer representing body acceleration on the y-axis. 

**tmbodyaccstdz** - *Float*
--Identifies the standard deviation for a time domain signal generated by the accelerometer representing body acceleration on the z-axis. 

**tmgravityaccmeanx** - *Float*
--Identifies the mean for a time domain signal generated by the accelerometer representing gravitational acceleration on the x-axis. 
     
**tmgravityaccmeany** - *Float*
--Identifies the mean for a time domain signal generated by the accelerometer representing gravitational acceleration on the y-axis. 

**tmgravityaccmeanz** - *Float*
--Identifies the mean for a time domain signal generated by the accelerometer representing gravitational acceleration on the z-axis. 

**tmgravityaccstdx** - *Float*
--Identifies the standard deviation for a time domain signal generated by the accelerometer representing gravitational acceleration on the x-axis.      
     
**tmgravityaccstdy** - *Float*
--Identifies the standard deviation for a time domain signal generated by the accelerometer representing gravitational acceleration on the y-axis. 

**tmgravityaccstdz** - *Float*
--Identifies the standard deviation for a time domain signal generated by the accelerometer representing gravitational acceleration on the z-axis. 

**tmbodyaccjerkmeanx** - *Float*
--Identifies the mean for a time domain signal generated by the accelerometer representing body jerk on the x-axis. 

**tmbodyaccjerkmeany** - *Float*
--Identifies the mean for a time domain signal generated by the accelerometer representing body jerk on the y-axis. 

**tmbodyaccjerkmeanz** - *Float*
--Identifies the mean for a time domain signal generated by the accelerometer representing body jerk on the z-axis.

**tmbodyaccjerkstdx** - *Float*
--Identifies the standard deviation for a time domain signal generated by the accelerometer representing body jerk on the x-axis.
 
**tmbodyaccjerkstdy** - *Float*
--Identifies the standard deviation for a time domain signal generated by the accelerometer representing body jerk on the y-axis. 

**tmbodyaccjerkstdz** - *Float*
--Identifies the standard deviation for a time domain signal generated by the accelerometer representing body jerk on the z-axis. 

**tmbodygyromeanx** - *Float*
--Identifies the mean for a time domain signal generated by the gyroscope representing body rotation on the x-axis. 

**tmbodygyromeany** - *Float*
--Identifies the mean for a time domain signal generated by the gyroscope representing body rotation on the y-axis. 

**tmbodygyromeanz** - *Float*
--Identifies the mean for a time domain signal generated by the gyroscope representing body rotation on the z-axis. 

**tmbodygyrostdx** - *Float*
--Identifies the standard deviation for a time domain signal generated by the gyroscope representing body rotation on the x-axis. 

**tmbodygyrostdy** - *Float*
--Identifies the standard deviation for a time domain signal generated by the gyroscope representing body rotation on the y-axis. 

**tmbodygyrostdz** - *Float*
--Identifies the standard deviation for a time domain signal generated by the gyroscope representing body rotation on the z-axis. 

**tmbodygyrojerkmeanx** - *Float*
--Identifies the mean for a time domain signal generated by the gyroscope representing body jerk on the x-axis. 

**tmbodygyrojerkmeany** - *Float*
--Identifies the mean for a time domain signal generated by the gyroscope representing body jerk on the y-axis. 

**tmbodygyrojerkmeanz** - *Float*
--Identifies the mean for a time domain signal generated by the gyroscope representing body jerk on the z-axis. 

**tmbodygyrojerkstdx** - *Float*
--Identifies the standard deviation for a time domain signal generated by the gyroscope representing body jerk on the x-axis. 

**tmbodygyrojerkstdy** - *Float*
--Identifies the standard deviation for a time domain signal generated by the gyroscope representing body jerk on the x-axis. 

**tmbodygyrojerkstdz** - *Float*
--Identifies the standard deviation for a time domain signal generated by the gyroscope representing body jerk on the x-axis. 

**tmbodyaccmagmean** - *Float*
--Identifies the mean of magnitude for a time domain signal generated by the accelerometer representing body acceleration on all axes. 

**tmbodyaccmagstd** - *Float*
--Identifies the standard deviation of magnitude for a time domain signal generated by the accelerometer representing body acceleration on all axes. 

**tmgravityaccmagmean** - *Float*
--Identifies the mean of magnitude for a time domain signal generated by the accelerometer representing gravitational acceleration on all axes. 

**tmgravityaccmagstd** - *Float*
--Identifies the standard deviation of magnitude for a time domain signal generated by the accelerometer representing gravitational acceleration on all axes. 

**tmbodyaccjerkmagmean** - *Float*
--Identifies the mean of magnitude for a time domain signal generated by the accelerometer representing body jerk on all axes. 

**tmbodyaccjerkmagstd** - *Float*
--Identifies the standard deviation of magnitude for a time domain signal generated by the accelerometer representing body jerk on all axes. 

**tmbodygyromagmean** - *Float*
--Identifies the mean of magnitude for a time domain signal generated by the gyroscope representing body rotation on all axes. 

**tmbodygyromagstd** - *Float*
--Identifies the standard deviation of magnitude for a time domain signal generated by the gyroscope representing body rotation on all axes. 

**tmbodygyrojerkmagmean** - *Float*
--Identifies the mean of magnitude for a time domain signal generated by the gyroscope representing body jerk on all axes. 

**tmbodygyrojerkmagstd** - *Float*
--Identifies the standard deviation of magnitude for a time domain signal generated by the gyroscope representing body jerk on all axes. 

**fttbodyaccmeanx** - *Float*
--Identifies the mean for a frequency domain signal generated by the accelerometer representing body acceleration on the x-axis.  

**fttbodyaccmeany** - *Float*
--Identifies the mean for a frequency domain signal generated by the accelerometer representing body acceleration on the y-axis.  

**fttbodyaccmeanz** - *Float*
--Identifies the mean for a frequency domain signal generated by the accelerometer representing body acceleration on the z-axis.  

**fttbodyaccstdx** - *Float*
--Identifies the standard deviation for a frequency domain signal generated by the accelerometer representing body acceleration on the x-axis.  

**fttbodyaccstdy** - *Float*
--Identifies the standard deviation for a frequency domain signal generated by the accelerometer representing body acceleration on the x-axis.  

**fttbodyaccstdz** - *Float*
--Identifies the standard deviation for a frequency domain signal generated by the accelerometer representing body acceleration on the x-axis.  

**fttbodyaccjerkmeanx** - *Float*
--Identifies the mean for a frequency domain signal generated by the accelerometer representing body jerk on the x-axis.  

**fttbodyaccjerkmeany** - *Float*
--Identifies the mean for a frequency domain signal generated by the accelerometer representing body jerk on the y-axis.  

**fttbodyaccjerkmeanz** - *Float*
--Identifies the mean for a frequency domain signal generated by the accelerometer representing body jerk on the z-axis.  

**ttbodyaccjerkstdx** - *Float*
--Identifies the standard deviation for a frequency domain signal generated by the accelerometer representing body jerk on the x-axis.

**fttbodyaccjerkstdy** - *Float*
--Identifies the standard deviation for a frequency domain signal generated by the accelerometer representing body jerk on the y-axis.

**fttbodyaccjerkstdz** - *Float*
--Identifies the standard deviation for a frequency domain signal generated by the accelerometer representing body jerk on the z-axis.

**fttbodygyromeanx** - *Float*
--Identifies the mean for a frequency domain signal generated by the gyroscope representing body rotation on the x-axis.

**fttbodygyromeany** - *Float*
--Identifies the mean for a frequency domain signal generated by the gyroscope representing body rotation on the y-axis.

**fttbodygyromeanz** - *Float*
--Identifies the mean for a frequency domain signal generated by the gyroscope representing body rotation on the z-axis.

**fttbodygyrostdx** - *Float*
--Identifies the standard deviation for a frequency domain signal generated by the gyroscope representing body rotation on the x-axis.

**fttbodygyrostdy** - *Float*
--Identifies the standard deviation for a frequency domain signal generated by the gyroscope representing body rotation on the y-axis.

**fttbodygyrostdz** - *Float*
--Identifies the standard deviation for a frequency domain signal generated by the gyroscope representing body rotation on the z-axis.

**fttbodyaccmagmean** - *Float*
--Identifies the mean of magnitude for a frequency domain signal generated by the accelerometer representing body acceleration on all axes. 

**fttbodyaccmagstd** - *Float*
--Identifies the standard deviation of magnitude for a time domain signal generated by the accelerometer representing body acceleration on all axes. 

**fttbodyaccjerkmagmean** - *Float*
--Identifies the mean of magnitude for a frequency domain signal generated by the accelerometer representing body jerk on all axes. 

**fttbodyaccjerkmagstd** - *Float*
--Identifies the standard deviation of magnitude for a frequency domain signal generated by the accelerometer representing body jerk on all axes.

**fttbodygyromagmean** - *Float*
--Identifies the mean of magnitude for a frequency domain signal generated by the gyroscope representing body rotation on all axes.

**fttbodygyromagstd** - *Float*
--Identifies the standard deviation of magnitude for a frequency domain signal generated by the gyroscope representing body rotation on all axes.

**fttbodygyrojerkmagmean** - *Float*
--Identifies the mean of magnitude for a frequency domain signal generated by the gyroscope representing body jerk on all axes.

**fttbodygyrojerkmagstd** - *Float*
--Identifies the standard deviation of magnitude for a frequency domain signal generated by the gyroscope representing body jerk on all axes.
